=head1 NAME

libquvi - Overview of query media library

=head1 DESCRIPTION

libquvi is a cross-platform library for parsing flash media stream
URLs with C API. The term "quvi" is a shorthand for "query video".

=head2 API documentation

E<lt>http://quvi.sourceforge.net/doc/E<gt>

=head2 Motivation

libquvi originates from the idea of allowing users to view the videos
without having to install or use flash. It is a "workaround", not an
"alternative" to flash.

See also:
 <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adobe_Flash#Performance>
 <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adobe_Flash#Flash_client_security>
 <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adobe_Flash#Alternatives_to_Flash>

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=head2 LIBQUVI_SCRIPTSDIR

Path to the libquvi-scripts directory. This overrides the libquvi default
search paths for the scripts. See also the tutorial in the
L</API documentation>.

=head2 LIBQUVI_SHOW_SCANDIR

If set, libquvi prints the lua script search paths to the stderr.

=head2 LIBQUVI_SHOW_SCRIPT

If set, the lua scripts found by libquvi are printed to the stderr.

=head1 WWW

 Home  : <http://quvi.sourceforge.net>
 gitweb: <http://repo.or.cz/w/libquvi.git>

=head1 LICENSE

libquvi is free software, licensed under the LGPLv2.1+. The lua scripts
that libquvi uses are considered as programs and using the lua scripts
is I<linking>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<libquvi-scripts(7)>, C<quvi(1)>

=head1 AUTHOR

Toni Gundogdu E<lt>legatvs at sign gmail comE<gt>

Thanks to all those who have contributed to the project by sending patches,
reporting bugs and writing feedback. You know who you are.
